Documentation/libraries-and-tools.md, before:

## Libraries and Tools

**Tools**

- [etcdctl](https://github.com/coreos/etcdctl) - A command line client for etcd
- [etcd-backup](https://github.com/fanhattan/etcd-backup) - A powerful command line utility for dumping/restoring etcd - Supports v2
- [etcd-dump](https://npmjs.org/package/etcd-dump) - Command line utility for dumping/restoring etcd.
- [etcd-fs](https://github.com/xetorthio/etcd-fs) - FUSE filesystem for etcd
- [etcd-browser](https://github.com/henszey/etcd-browser) - A web-based key/value editor for etcd using AngularJS
- [etcd-lock](https://github.com/datawisesystems/etcd-lock) - Master election & distributed r/w lock implementation using etcd - Supports v2
- [etcd-console](https://github.com/matishsiao/etcd-console) - A web-base key/value editor for etcd using PHP

**Go libraries**

- [go-etcd](https://github.com/coreos/go-etcd) - Supports v2

**Java libraries**

- [boonproject/etcd](https://github.com/boonproject/boon/blob/master/etcd/README.md) - Supports v2, Async/Sync and waits
- [justinsb/jetcd](https://github.com/justinsb/jetcd)
- [diwakergupta/jetcd](https://github.com/diwakergupta/jetcd) - Supports v2
- [jurmous/etcd4j](https://github.com/jurmous/etcd4j) - Supports v2, Async/Sync, waits and SSL
- [AdoHe/etcd4j](http://github.com/AdoHe/etcd4j) - Supports v2 (enhance for real production cluster)

**Python libraries**

- [jplana/python-etcd](https://github.com/jplana/python-etcd) - Supports v2
- [russellhaering/txetcd](https://github.com/russellhaering/txetcd) - a Twisted Python library
- [cholcombe973/autodock](https://github.com/cholcombe973/autodock) - A docker deployment automation tool
- [lisael/aioetcd](https://github.com/lisael/aioetcd) - (Python 3.4+) Asyncio coroutines client (Supports v2)

**Node libraries**

- [stianeikeland/node-etcd](https://github.com/stianeikeland/node-etcd) - Supports v2 (w Coffeescript)
- [lavagetto/nodejs-etcd](https://github.com/lavagetto/nodejs-etcd) - Supports v2
- [deedubs/node-etcd-config](https://github.com/deedubs/node-etcd-config) - Supports v2

**Ruby libraries**

- [iconara/etcd-rb](https://github.com/iconara/etcd-rb)
- [jpfuentes2/etcd-ruby](https://github.com/jpfuentes2/etcd-ruby)
- [ranjib/etcd-ruby](https://github.com/ranjib/etcd-ruby) - Supports v2

**C libraries**

- [jdarcy/etcd-api](https://github.com/jdarcy/etcd-api) - Supports v2

**C++ libraries**
- [edwardcapriolo/etcdcpp](https://github.com/edwardcapriolo/etcdcpp) - Supports v2

**Clojure libraries**

- [aterreno/etcd-clojure](https://github.com/aterreno/etcd-clojure)
- [dwwoelfel/cetcd](https://github.com/dwwoelfel/cetcd) - Supports v2
- [rthomas/clj-etcd](https://github.com/rthomas/clj-etcd) - Supports v2

**Erlang libraries**

- [marshall-lee/etcd.erl](https://github.com/marshall-lee/etcd.erl)

**.Net Libraries**

- [drusellers/etcetera](https://github.com/drusellers/etcetera)

**PHP Libraries**

- [linkorb/etcd-php](https://github.com/linkorb/etcd-php)

**Haskell libraries**

- [wereHamster/etcd-hs](https://github.com/wereHamster/etcd-hs)

**R libraries**

- [ropensci/etseed](https://github.com/ropensci/etseed)

**Tcl libraries**

- [efrecon/etcd-tcl](https://github.com/efrecon/etcd-tcl) - Supports v2, except wait.

A detailed recap of client functionalities can be found in the [clients compatibility matrix][clients-matrix.md].

[clients-matrix.md]: https://github.com/coreos/etcd/blob/master/Documentation/clients-matrix.md

**Chef Integration**

- [coderanger/etcd-chef](https://github.com/coderanger/etcd-chef)

**Chef Cookbook**

- [spheromak/etcd-cookbook](https://github.com/spheromak/etcd-cookbook)

**BOSH Releases**

- [cloudfoundry-community/etcd-boshrelease](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/etcd-boshrelease)
- [cloudfoundry/cf-release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release/tree/master/jobs/etcd)

**Projects using etcd**

- [binocarlos/yoda](https://github.com/binocarlos/yoda) - etcd + ZeroMQ
- [calavera/active-proxy](https://github.com/calavera/active-proxy) - HTTP Proxy configured with etcd
- [derekchiang/etcdplus](https://github.com/derekchiang/etcdplus) - A set of distributed synchronization primitives built upon etcd
- [go-discover](https://github.com/flynn/go-discover) - service discovery in Go
- [gleicon/goreman](https://github.com/gleicon/goreman/tree/etcd) - Branch of the Go Foreman clone with etcd support
- [garethr/hiera-etcd](https://github.com/garethr/hiera-etcd) - Puppet hiera backend using etcd
- [mattn/etcd-vim](https://github.com/mattn/etcd-vim) - SET and GET keys from inside vim
- [mattn/etcdenv](https://github.com/mattn/etcdenv) - "env" shebang with etcd integration
- [kelseyhightower/confd](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/confd) - Manage local app config files using templates and data from etcd
- [configdb](https://git.autistici.org/ai/configdb/tree/master) - A REST relational abstraction on top of arbitrary database backends, aimed at storing configs and inventories.
- [scrz](https://github.com/scrz/scrz) - Container manager, stores configuration in etcd.
- [fleet](https://github.com/coreos/fleet) - Distributed init system
- [GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes) - Container cluster manager.
- [mailgun/vulcand](https://github.com/mailgun/vulcand) - HTTP proxy that uses etcd as a configuration backend.
- [duedil-ltd/discodns](https://github.com/duedil-ltd/discodns) - Simple DNS nameserver using etcd as a database for names and records.
- [skynetservices/skydns](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns) - RFC compliant DNS server
- [xordataexchange/crypt](https://github.com/xordataexchange/crypt) - Securely store values in etcd using GPG encryption
- [spf13/viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper) - Go configuration library, reads values from ENV, pflags, files, and etcd with optional encryption
- [lytics/metafora](https://github.com/lytics/metafora) - Go distributed task library

Commit message:

docs: add etcd-viewer into libraries-and-tools.md
I've been working on this project for a few weeks and I believe it has some features that could assist maintaining etcd registries. Please check it out and I hope you would like to include it in your list of etcd tools.
Kind regards,
Nikos

Documentation/libraries-and-tools.md, after:

## Libraries and Tools

**Tools**

- [etcdctl](https://github.com/coreos/etcdctl) - A command line client for etcd
- [etcd-backup](https://github.com/fanhattan/etcd-backup) - A powerful command line utility for dumping/restoring etcd - Supports v2
- [etcd-dump](https://npmjs.org/package/etcd-dump) - Command line utility for dumping/restoring etcd.
- [etcd-fs](https://github.com/xetorthio/etcd-fs) - FUSE filesystem for etcd
- [etcd-browser](https://github.com/henszey/etcd-browser) - A web-based key/value editor for etcd using AngularJS
- [etcd-lock](https://github.com/datawisesystems/etcd-lock) - Master election & distributed r/w lock implementation using etcd - Supports v2
- [etcd-console](https://github.com/matishsiao/etcd-console) - A web-base key/value editor for etcd using PHP
- [etcd-viewer](https://github.com/nikfoundas/etcd-viewer) - An etcd key-value store editor/viewer written in Java

**Go libraries**

- [go-etcd](https://github.com/coreos/go-etcd) - Supports v2

**Java libraries**

- [boonproject/etcd](https://github.com/boonproject/boon/blob/master/etcd/README.md) - Supports v2, Async/Sync and waits
- [justinsb/jetcd](https://github.com/justinsb/jetcd)
- [diwakergupta/jetcd](https://github.com/diwakergupta/jetcd) - Supports v2
- [jurmous/etcd4j](https://github.com/jurmous/etcd4j) - Supports v2, Async/Sync, waits and SSL
- [AdoHe/etcd4j](http://github.com/AdoHe/etcd4j) - Supports v2 (enhance for real production cluster)

**Python libraries**

- [jplana/python-etcd](https://github.com/jplana/python-etcd) - Supports v2
- [russellhaering/txetcd](https://github.com/russellhaering/txetcd) - a Twisted Python library
- [cholcombe973/autodock](https://github.com/cholcombe973/autodock) - A docker deployment automation tool
- [lisael/aioetcd](https://github.com/lisael/aioetcd) - (Python 3.4+) Asyncio coroutines client (Supports v2)

**Node libraries**

- [stianeikeland/node-etcd](https://github.com/stianeikeland/node-etcd) - Supports v2 (w Coffeescript)
- [lavagetto/nodejs-etcd](https://github.com/lavagetto/nodejs-etcd) - Supports v2
- [deedubs/node-etcd-config](https://github.com/deedubs/node-etcd-config) - Supports v2

**Ruby libraries**

- [iconara/etcd-rb](https://github.com/iconara/etcd-rb)
- [jpfuentes2/etcd-ruby](https://github.com/jpfuentes2/etcd-ruby)
- [ranjib/etcd-ruby](https://github.com/ranjib/etcd-ruby) - Supports v2

**C libraries**

- [jdarcy/etcd-api](https://github.com/jdarcy/etcd-api) - Supports v2

**C++ libraries**
- [edwardcapriolo/etcdcpp](https://github.com/edwardcapriolo/etcdcpp) - Supports v2

**Clojure libraries**

- [aterreno/etcd-clojure](https://github.com/aterreno/etcd-clojure)
- [dwwoelfel/cetcd](https://github.com/dwwoelfel/cetcd) - Supports v2
- [rthomas/clj-etcd](https://github.com/rthomas/clj-etcd) - Supports v2

**Erlang libraries**

- [marshall-lee/etcd.erl](https://github.com/marshall-lee/etcd.erl)

**.Net Libraries**

- [drusellers/etcetera](https://github.com/drusellers/etcetera)

**PHP Libraries**

- [linkorb/etcd-php](https://github.com/linkorb/etcd-php)

**Haskell libraries**

- [wereHamster/etcd-hs](https://github.com/wereHamster/etcd-hs)

**R libraries**

- [ropensci/etseed](https://github.com/ropensci/etseed)

**Tcl libraries**

- [efrecon/etcd-tcl](https://github.com/efrecon/etcd-tcl) - Supports v2, except wait.

A detailed recap of client functionalities can be found in the [clients compatibility matrix][clients-matrix.md].

[clients-matrix.md]: https://github.com/coreos/etcd/blob/master/Documentation/clients-matrix.md

**Chef Integration**

- [coderanger/etcd-chef](https://github.com/coderanger/etcd-chef)

**Chef Cookbook**

- [spheromak/etcd-cookbook](https://github.com/spheromak/etcd-cookbook)

**BOSH Releases**

- [cloudfoundry-community/etcd-boshrelease](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/etcd-boshrelease)
- [cloudfoundry/cf-release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release/tree/master/jobs/etcd)

**Projects using etcd**

- [binocarlos/yoda](https://github.com/binocarlos/yoda) - etcd + ZeroMQ
- [calavera/active-proxy](https://github.com/calavera/active-proxy) - HTTP Proxy configured with etcd
- [derekchiang/etcdplus](https://github.com/derekchiang/etcdplus) - A set of distributed synchronization primitives built upon etcd
- [go-discover](https://github.com/flynn/go-discover) - service discovery in Go
- [gleicon/goreman](https://github.com/gleicon/goreman/tree/etcd) - Branch of the Go Foreman clone with etcd support
- [garethr/hiera-etcd](https://github.com/garethr/hiera-etcd) - Puppet hiera backend using etcd
- [mattn/etcd-vim](https://github.com/mattn/etcd-vim) - SET and GET keys from inside vim
- [mattn/etcdenv](https://github.com/mattn/etcdenv) - "env" shebang with etcd integration
- [kelseyhightower/confd](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/confd) - Manage local app config files using templates and data from etcd
- [configdb](https://git.autistici.org/ai/configdb/tree/master) - A REST relational abstraction on top of arbitrary database backends, aimed at storing configs and inventories.
- [scrz](https://github.com/scrz/scrz) - Container manager, stores configuration in etcd.
- [fleet](https://github.com/coreos/fleet) - Distributed init system
- [GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes) - Container cluster manager.
- [mailgun/vulcand](https://github.com/mailgun/vulcand) - HTTP proxy that uses etcd as a configuration backend.
- [duedil-ltd/discodns](https://github.com/duedil-ltd/discodns) - Simple DNS nameserver using etcd as a database for names and records.
- [skynetservices/skydns](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns) - RFC compliant DNS server
- [xordataexchange/crypt](https://github.com/xordataexchange/crypt) - Securely store values in etcd using GPG encryption
- [spf13/viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper) - Go configuration library, reads values from ENV, pflags, files, and etcd with optional encryption
- [lytics/metafora](https://github.com/lytics/metafora) - Go distributed task library
