Documentation/runtime-configuration.md, before:

## Runtime Reconfiguration

etcd comes with support for incremental runtime reconfiguration, which allows users to update the membership of the cluster at run time.

Reconfiguration requests can only be processed when the the majority of the cluster members are functioning. It is **highly recommended** to always have a cluster size greater than two in production. It is unsafe to remove a member from a two member cluster. The majority of a two member cluster is also two. If there is a failure during the removal process, the cluster might not able to make progress and need to [restart from majority failure][majority failure].

[majority failure]: #restart-cluster-from-majority-failure

## Reconfiguration Use Cases

Let us walk through some common reasons for reconfiguring a cluster. Most of these just involve combinations of adding or removing a member, which are explained below under [Cluster Reconfiguration Operations](#cluster-reconfiguration-operations).

### Cycle or Upgrade Multiple Machines

If you need to move multiple members of your cluster due to planned maintenance (hardware upgrades, network downtime, etc.), it is recommended to modify members one at a time.

It is safe to remove the leader, however there is a brief period of downtime while the election process takes place. If your cluster holds more than 50MB, it is recommended to [migrate the member's data directory][member migration].

[member migration]: admin_guide.md#member-migration

### Change the Cluster Size

Increasing the cluster size can enhance [failure tolerance][fault tolerance table] and provide better read performance. Since clients can read from any member, increasing the number of members increases the overall read throughput.

Decreasing the cluster size can improve the write performance of a cluster, with a trade-off of decreased resilience. Writes into the cluster are replicated to a majority of members of the cluster before considered committed. Decreasing the cluster size lowers the majority, and each write is committed more quickly.

[fault tolerance table]: admin_guide.md#fault-tolerance-table

### Replace A Failed Machine

If a machine fails due to hardware failure, data directory corruption, or some other fatal situation, it should be replaced as soon as possible. Machines that have failed but haven't been removed adversely affect your quorum and reduce the tolerance for an additional failure.

To replace the machine, follow the instructions for [removing the member][remove member] from the cluster, and then [add a new member][add member] in its place. If your cluster holds more than 50MB, it is recommended to [migrate the failed member's data directory][member migration] if you can still access it.

[remove member]: #remove-a-member
[add member]: #add-a-new-member

### Restart Cluster from Majority Failure

If the majority of your cluster is lost, then you need to take manual action in order to recover safely.
The basic steps in the recovery process include [creating a new cluster using the old data][disaster recovery], forcing a single member to act as the leader, and finally using runtime configuration to [add new members][add member] to this new cluster one at a time.

[add member]: #add-a-new-member
[disaster recovery]: admin_guide.md#disaster-recovery

## Cluster Reconfiguration Operations

Now that we have the use cases in mind, let us lay out the operations involved in each.

Before making any change, the simple majority (quorum) of etcd members must be available.
This is essentially the same requirement as for any other write to etcd.

All changes to the cluster are done one at a time:

To replace a single member you will make an add then a remove operation
To increase from 3 to 5 members you will make two add operations
To decrease from 5 to 3 you will make two remove operations

All of these examples will use the `etcdctl` command line tool that ships with etcd.
If you want to use the member API directly you can find the documentation [here](other_apis.md).

### Remove a Member

First, we need to find the target member's ID. You can list all members with `etcdctl`:

```
$ etcdctl member list
6e3bd23ae5f1eae0: name=node2 peerURLs=http://localhost:7002 clientURLs=http://127.0.0.1:4002
924e2e83e93f2560: name=node3 peerURLs=http://localhost:7003 clientURLs=http://127.0.0.1:4003
a8266ecf031671f3: name=node1 peerURLs=http://localhost:7001 clientURLs=http://127.0.0.1:4001
```

Let us say the member ID we want to remove is a8266ecf031671f3.
We then use the `remove` command to perform the removal:

```
$ etcdctl member remove a8266ecf031671f3
Removed member a8266ecf031671f3 from cluster
```

The target member will stop itself at this point and print out the removal in the log:

```
etcd: this member has been permanently removed from the cluster. Exiting.
```

It is safe to remove the leader, however the cluster will be inactive while a new leader is elected. This duration is normally the period of election timeout plus the voting process.

### Add a New Member

Adding a member is a two step process:

 * Add the new member to the cluster via the [members API](other_apis.md#post-v2members) or the `etcdctl member add` command.
 * Start the new member with the new cluster configuration, including a list of the updated members (existing members + the new member).

Using `etcdctl` let's add the new member to the cluster by specifying its [name](configuration.md#-name) and [advertised peer URLs](configuration.md#-initial-advertise-peer-urls):

```
$ etcdctl member add infra3 http://10.0.1.13:2380
added member 9bf1b35fc7761a23 to cluster

ETCD_NAME="infra3"
ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER="infra0=http://10.0.1.10:2380,infra1=http://10.0.1.11:2380,infra2=http://10.0.1.12:2380,infra3=http://10.0.1.13:2380"
ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE=existing
```

`etcdctl` has informed the cluster about the new member and printed out the environment variables needed to successfully start it.
Now start the new etcd process with the relevant flags for the new member:

```
$ export ETCD_NAME="infra3"
$ export ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER="infra0=http://10.0.1.10:2380,infra1=http://10.0.1.11:2380,infra2=http://10.0.1.12:2380,infra3=http://10.0.1.13:2380"
$ export ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE=existing
$ etcd -listen-client-urls http://10.0.1.13:2379 -advertise-client-urls http://10.0.1.13:2379  -listen-peer-urls http://10.0.1.13:2380 -initial-advertise-peer-urls http://10.0.1.13:2380
```

The new member will run as a part of the cluster and immediately begin catching up with the rest of the cluster.

If you are adding multiple members the best practice is to configure a single member at a time and verify it starts correctly before adding more new members.
If you add a new member to a 1-node cluster, the cluster cannot make progress before the new member starts because it needs two members as majority to agree on the consensus. You will only see this behavior between the time `etcdctl member add` informs the cluster about the new member and the new member successfully establishing a connection to the existing one.

#### Error Cases

In the following case we have not included our new host in the list of enumerated nodes.
If this is a new cluster, the node must be added to the list of initial cluster members.

```
$ etcd -name infra3 \
  -initial-cluster infra0=http://10.0.1.10:2380,infra1=http://10.0.1.11:2380,infra2=http://10.0.1.12:2380 \
  -initial-cluster-state existing
etcdserver: assign ids error: the member count is unequal
exit 1
```

In this case we give a different address (10.0.1.14:2380) to the one that we used to join the cluster (10.0.1.13:2380).

```
$ etcd -name infra4 \
  -initial-cluster infra0=http://10.0.1.10:2380,infra1=http://10.0.1.11:2380,infra2=http://10.0.1.12:2380,infra4=http://10.0.1.14:2380 \
  -initial-cluster-state existing
etcdserver: assign ids error: unmatched member while checking PeerURLs
exit 1
```

When we start etcd using the data directory of a removed member, etcd will exit automatically if it connects to any alive member in the cluster:

```
$ etcd
etcd: this member has been permanently removed from the cluster. Exiting.
exit 1
```

Commit message:

doc: add runtime reconfiguration design doc

Documentation/runtime-configuration.md, after:

## Runtime Reconfiguration

etcd comes with support for incremental runtime reconfiguration, which allows users to update the membership of the cluster at run time.

Reconfiguration requests can only be processed when the the majority of the cluster members are functioning. It is **highly recommended** to always have a cluster size greater than two in production. It is unsafe to remove a member from a two member cluster. The majority of a two member cluster is also two. If there is a failure during the removal process, the cluster might not able to make progress and need to [restart from majority failure][majority failure].

To better understand the design behind runtime reconfiguration, we suggest you read [this](runtime-reconf-design.md).

[majority failure]: #restart-cluster-from-majority-failure

## Reconfiguration Use Cases

Let us walk through some common reasons for reconfiguring a cluster. Most of these just involve combinations of adding or removing a member, which are explained below under [Cluster Reconfiguration Operations](#cluster-reconfiguration-operations).

### Cycle or Upgrade Multiple Machines

If you need to move multiple members of your cluster due to planned maintenance (hardware upgrades, network downtime, etc.), it is recommended to modify members one at a time.

It is safe to remove the leader, however there is a brief period of downtime while the election process takes place. If your cluster holds more than 50MB, it is recommended to [migrate the member's data directory][member migration].

[member migration]: admin_guide.md#member-migration

### Change the Cluster Size

Increasing the cluster size can enhance [failure tolerance][fault tolerance table] and provide better read performance. Since clients can read from any member, increasing the number of members increases the overall read throughput.

Decreasing the cluster size can improve the write performance of a cluster, with a trade-off of decreased resilience. Writes into the cluster are replicated to a majority of members of the cluster before considered committed. Decreasing the cluster size lowers the majority, and each write is committed more quickly.

[fault tolerance table]: admin_guide.md#fault-tolerance-table

### Replace A Failed Machine

If a machine fails due to hardware failure, data directory corruption, or some other fatal situation, it should be replaced as soon as possible. Machines that have failed but haven't been removed adversely affect your quorum and reduce the tolerance for an additional failure.

To replace the machine, follow the instructions for [removing the member][remove member] from the cluster, and then [add a new member][add member] in its place. If your cluster holds more than 50MB, it is recommended to [migrate the failed member's data directory][member migration] if you can still access it.

[remove member]: #remove-a-member
[add member]: #add-a-new-member

### Restart Cluster from Majority Failure

If the majority of your cluster is lost, then you need to take manual action in order to recover safely.
The basic steps in the recovery process include [creating a new cluster using the old data][disaster recovery], forcing a single member to act as the leader, and finally using runtime configuration to [add new members][add member] to this new cluster one at a time.

[add member]: #add-a-new-member
[disaster recovery]: admin_guide.md#disaster-recovery

## Cluster Reconfiguration Operations

Now that we have the use cases in mind, let us lay out the operations involved in each.

Before making any change, the simple majority (quorum) of etcd members must be available.
This is essentially the same requirement as for any other write to etcd.

All changes to the cluster are done one at a time:

To replace a single member you will make an add then a remove operation
To increase from 3 to 5 members you will make two add operations
To decrease from 5 to 3 you will make two remove operations

All of these examples will use the `etcdctl` command line tool that ships with etcd.
If you want to use the member API directly you can find the documentation [here](other_apis.md).

### Remove a Member

First, we need to find the target member's ID. You can list all members with `etcdctl`:

```
$ etcdctl member list
6e3bd23ae5f1eae0: name=node2 peerURLs=http://localhost:7002 clientURLs=http://127.0.0.1:4002
924e2e83e93f2560: name=node3 peerURLs=http://localhost:7003 clientURLs=http://127.0.0.1:4003
a8266ecf031671f3: name=node1 peerURLs=http://localhost:7001 clientURLs=http://127.0.0.1:4001
```

Let us say the member ID we want to remove is a8266ecf031671f3.
We then use the `remove` command to perform the removal:

```
$ etcdctl member remove a8266ecf031671f3
Removed member a8266ecf031671f3 from cluster
```

The target member will stop itself at this point and print out the removal in the log:

```
etcd: this member has been permanently removed from the cluster. Exiting.
```

It is safe to remove the leader, however the cluster will be inactive while a new leader is elected. This duration is normally the period of election timeout plus the voting process.

### Add a New Member

Adding a member is a two step process:

 * Add the new member to the cluster via the [members API](other_apis.md#post-v2members) or the `etcdctl member add` command.
 * Start the new member with the new cluster configuration, including a list of the updated members (existing members + the new member).

Using `etcdctl` let's add the new member to the cluster by specifying its [name](configuration.md#-name) and [advertised peer URLs](configuration.md#-initial-advertise-peer-urls):

```
$ etcdctl member add infra3 http://10.0.1.13:2380
added member 9bf1b35fc7761a23 to cluster

ETCD_NAME="infra3"
ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER="infra0=http://10.0.1.10:2380,infra1=http://10.0.1.11:2380,infra2=http://10.0.1.12:2380,infra3=http://10.0.1.13:2380"
ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE=existing
```

`etcdctl` has informed the cluster about the new member and printed out the environment variables needed to successfully start it.
Now start the new etcd process with the relevant flags for the new member:

```
$ export ETCD_NAME="infra3"
$ export ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER="infra0=http://10.0.1.10:2380,infra1=http://10.0.1.11:2380,infra2=http://10.0.1.12:2380,infra3=http://10.0.1.13:2380"
$ export ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE=existing
$ etcd -listen-client-urls http://10.0.1.13:2379 -advertise-client-urls http://10.0.1.13:2379  -listen-peer-urls http://10.0.1.13:2380 -initial-advertise-peer-urls http://10.0.1.13:2380
```

The new member will run as a part of the cluster and immediately begin catching up with the rest of the cluster.

If you are adding multiple members the best practice is to configure a single member at a time and verify it starts correctly before adding more new members.
If you add a new member to a 1-node cluster, the cluster cannot make progress before the new member starts because it needs two members as majority to agree on the consensus. You will only see this behavior between the time `etcdctl member add` informs the cluster about the new member and the new member successfully establishing a connection to the existing one.

#### Error Cases

In the following case we have not included our new host in the list of enumerated nodes.
If this is a new cluster, the node must be added to the list of initial cluster members.

```
$ etcd -name infra3 \
  -initial-cluster infra0=http://10.0.1.10:2380,infra1=http://10.0.1.11:2380,infra2=http://10.0.1.12:2380 \
  -initial-cluster-state existing
etcdserver: assign ids error: the member count is unequal
exit 1
```

In this case we give a different address (10.0.1.14:2380) to the one that we used to join the cluster (10.0.1.13:2380).

```
$ etcd -name infra4 \
  -initial-cluster infra0=http://10.0.1.10:2380,infra1=http://10.0.1.11:2380,infra2=http://10.0.1.12:2380,infra4=http://10.0.1.14:2380 \
  -initial-cluster-state existing
etcdserver: assign ids error: unmatched member while checking PeerURLs
exit 1
```

When we start etcd using the data directory of a removed member, etcd will exit automatically if it connects to any alive member in the cluster:

```
$ etcd
etcd: this member has been permanently removed from the cluster. Exiting.
exit 1
```
